# Financial-Fraud-and-Fairness
The detection of fraudulent bank account opening is a crucial task in the banking industry. However, there is a risk of bias in the detection process, which can lead to unfair treatment of certain groups. In order to mitigate this risk, it is important to identify the protected attributes that have the greatest impact on bias and performance in fraud detection. This proposal outlines a comparative study on different protected attributes for fairness in detecting fraudulent bank account opening.
## Resources

**The dataset suite generated by the authors of BAF dataset is available through [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/sgpjesus/bank-account-fraud-dataset-neurips-2022).**

The _preprint_ paper and datasheet are available in the following links:

- [Paper](documents/BAF_paper.pdf)
- [Datasheet](documents/datasheet.pdf)

## Generating the dataset variants

Download the base file from the link provided above. Inside the `ctgan_training_notebook.ipynb` specify the location of the `config-rs.yml` inside it. The file generates 3 million samples. Next run the `merge_synthetic_data.ipynb`. 
Run the variant generation code which will result in 6 dataset variants. It is the process of sampling from a large dataset to obtain the different variants that constitute the suite of datasets.


## Training
Load the hyperparameter yaml files and run the `emperical_results.ipynb`.
This file presents the training of 100 models of XGBoost, LightGBM, Random Forest, Logistic Regression and Deep Neural Networks each.

To replicate the environment used in the experiments, install the  `requirements.txt` file via pip in a Python 3.10 environment. 

